EVM pallet (#7)
substrate-developer-hub/docs-sandbox: source/docs/main-docs/05-design/evm-pallet.md

# EVM pallet

The FRAME Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) provides an execution environment for Substrate's Ethereum compatibility layer, known as Frontier. Frontier allows unmodified EVM code to be executed in a Substrate-based blockchain, designed to closely emulate the functionality of executing contracts on the Ethereum mainnet within the Substrate runtime. 

For more information on the FRAME EVM, see [FRAME EVM pallet reference](https://docs.rs/pallet_evm/).

> To download Frontier, go to https://github.com/paritytech/frontier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Frontier node template, go to https://github.com/paritytech/frontier/tree/master/template.
```

Unobservable behaviors, such as state root are not the same when using the EVM pallet. The transaction / receipt format is also different. However, given one Ethereum transaction and one Substrate account private key, you should be able to convert any Ethereum transaction into a transaction compatible with this pallet.

The gas configurations are currently hard-coded to the Istanbul hard fork. It can later be expanded to support earlier hard fork configurations.

Substrate is built to enable you to extend what's provided out of the box. We encourage further development of alternative smart contract platforms on top of the Substrate runtime. Use these pre-built pallets to inform how you might design your own system or how you could port over an existing system to work on a Substrate-based chain.

## FAQ

### What is the difference between memory and storage?

In ink! `memory` is the computer memory that is commonly known to programmers, while `storage` is the contract instance memory. The `storage` is backed up by the runtime in a database. <!--Accesses to it are considered to be slow.-->

> ### How do I run tests?

Reviewer 2: why is ink in here? this is explicitly different than frontier and EVM, should live in its own page and cross reference each other

Reviewer: Yes -- to add to Dan's point: the EVM pallet has nothing to do with writing smart contracts (and thereby, tests). All it's used for is to execute smart contracts that compile to EVM byte code.
